Time to make the buy buttons work for that, we'll need a portfolio and some state for that portfolio,
so let's work on this next. In this modules folder,
I'll add a portfolio.js file because I want to set up its own module in our vuex store
and there, we will have a state of course
and now what is the state of our portfolio?
Well we certainly want to have some funds to work with,
I'll set this to 10000,
you may choose of course a different amount and we'll have some stocks in our portfolio.
So stocks here refers to the stocks in our portfolio,
not to all the stocks available.
We then need some mutations of course, mutations again are what allows us to change our state
and here, I want to be able to buy a stock
so this is one action I set up. And this action therefore has the state, all mutations get that and then
I know I'll get an object as the second argument and I'll use destructuring to pull out the stock ID,
the quantity and the stock price.
Now where do these three names in this object come from,
how do I know that I will have these three properties?
Well that's basically my order,
if we have a look at the stock.vue file in the stocks folder, this is how we set up our order with
a stock ID, a stock price and quantity
and now that is what I'm pulling out of my object here because I know I will get an order if I need
to commit a buy stock mutation,
so therefore, I can use that.
Now in this method, I first want to check if I already do have this stock in my stocks array because
if I
do have it,
I want to add it
and I don't want to create a new item in the new array. So I'll first check if I do have a new record by accessing my state
and then my stock
so this array up here and then executing find, a method which allows you to find something in the array.
Find takes a function as an argument where the element will be passed in automatically, so this will
automatically loop through all my elements and then execute a function for each of the elements
and there, I want to check if element ID equals stock ID.
Keep in mind if you write this in one line, this always the implicit return statement in front of
it,
so this will return true if the ID of the element I'm currently at in my loop matches the ID of the
stock
I want to buy.
So if my array is empty, this will never match
but if my array does have this stock already, it will match at some point and therefore it will then return
this will return true or false which again will lead for the find method to return this stock in my
array. And I know if record is set, that I already do have my
or do have this stock in my array and therefore, I don't want to push a new item on this array, instead
I want to take this record which is the stock which was found in my array and update the quantity to
be the old quantity plus the new quantity
I'm getting in the order.
However if this is not the case, then I know it's a new record,
in this case I want to take my state, my stocks there and push a new object on it,
this new object will have an ID of stock ID and a quantity of quantity,
so that's the data I want to store in this stocks array in my portfolio,
the ID and the quantity. With that, I got all the data I will need later on to also find out what's
the price and what's the total value and so on.
So that's the buy stock action or mutation I should say,
we also need a method to sell stocks, here
I will also get a state and I will also get an order,
of course the order will have the same fields
as for buying a stock,
so all the relevant data which allows me to update my state. Now
there, I will first find the stock by ID in my array because I only get stock ID and so on, I need to
find it in my array and then I want to check if my record quantity is greater than the quantity of what
I want to sell,
then this is of course possible and I therefore want to update my record quantity to be the old quantity
minus the quantity of the order
but if I try to sell more than I do have or exactly the amount of what I have to be precise, I want
to remove it from the array.
So there I want to splice and find the position of my record, index of record here
and that's what I want,
so this will now give me back a new array, we'll update the array without that item inside of it
and of course, I only want to splice this item, so only remove this item which now actually is
completely sold.
Of course I'll also need to update my funds so I'll check my funds here and I will add something equal
to the stock price times the quantity and I need to do the same here when I buy a stock actually,
so here I also want to update the funds
but of course here, I want to update them to be well the funds minus stock price times quantity. With
that, we got buy and sell in place,
now let's quickly finish this by adding the action we need,
that is only one,
the sell stock action because buy stock is located in my stocks module.
So here I will have my sell stock action which actually also I can use the method syntax for that too
of course which gets me my commit method, has an order
and then here, I simply want to commit sell stock order.
Now you could of course also add the buy stock action here if you think that makes more sense or whatever,
I think you can argue for both,
I'll leave it in my stocks module for now
and we want to set up the getters here of course. Now getters, that is simply an object and therefore getting
my data or what,
which getters do I need,
let's start with that.
Well I want to be able to get my current portfolio of stocks,
so I definitely want to get my stock portfolio and I want to get my funds, now
let's start with the stock portfolio.
There we get the state and we can also inject the other getters into this and there, I want to then return
state stocks
and now I somehow need to, since I only have the IDs in my stocks array, I need to access the stocks
on the stocks module, that is why I injected the getters here, to find out
the ID of my or the name and so on
of the stocks I have in my portfolio. I can use the map method for that, map allows me to transform
each element in my array,
so this will automatically input the current element
I am looping through kind of implicitly into this callback function and in there, I can now set up into
what I want to transform this element
we're currently at and this will be run for all elements in my array again.
So here I again want to fetch the record, for that I will use my getters, that refers to my store getters,
so of my overall store and there I can find or can use the stock getter which of course is the getter
I set up here in the stocks module.
So I can access this like this and here, find allows me to again find an element where I check if the
element ID matches my stock ID, now important, stock refers to the stock we're currently at in this
map method whereas element ID refers to the element of these stocks
array in my stocks modules, so of all the stocks not just the ones in my portfolio.
So here, I'm basically finding the relevant records and then for each record, I want to return a new object,
that is what the elements in my array will get transformed to
and here, I return ID which is stock ID, I want to set the quantity which is stock quantity and I want
to set the name which is the name of this record because I am not storing this in my local stocks array
here and price which is the price on the record because again, in this local stocks array, I only have ID in quantity
which is why I keep them here
but then I'm reaching out to my overall stocks array to also get name and price
and here I'm basically creating a new array where I mapped all these values, so where I expanded my object
in this array to not only have ID and quantity but now also name and price and I'm returning it here,
so therefore I'm returning it
overall in this getter here. And regarding funds, well funds only needs the state, like this and here, I simply
want to return state funds, of course referring to the funds in my state here.
So with that in place, let's export it
and then in the next video, let's hook it all up,
so we want to export the state, the mutations, the actions and of course the getters. With that,
that was quite a lot of work,
of course there are different ways to set this up,
this is always a question of where we want to store things, how we want to handle things.
I try to show one set up where we also needed to reach out to another module so that we also can see
how that would work
and of course this is not absolutely necessary,
you could simply store your stocks differently. Enough of the talking,
let's move onto the next video where we use all these things to hook everything up and enable buying and
selling stocks.